{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria Math;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}{\*\mmathPr\mmathFont0\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs28\lang9  Software Requirements Specification (SRS) for Bank Management System\par
\b0\f1\fs22\par
\b\fs28 1. Introduction\par
\b0\fs22 This Software Requirements Specification (SRS) document outlines the functional and non-functional requirements for the Bank Management System (BMS). The system is designed to manage various banking activities such as customer accounts, transactions, loan management, and reporting.\par
\b\fs28 1.1 Purpose\par
\b0\fs22 The purpose of the Bank Management System (BMS) is to provide an efficient, secure, and user-friendly software solution for managing the operations of a bank. The system will be used by customers, bank staff (such as tellers and managers), and administrators to perform various banking operations.\par
\b\fs28 1.2 Scope\par
\b0\fs22 The system will provide functionalities such as:\par
- Customer account management (create, update, delete accounts)\par
- Transaction processing (deposit, withdrawal, transfer)\par
- Loan management (application, approval, repayment)\par
- Account balance and transaction history\par
- Reporting (account statements, transaction reports)\par
- User authentication and role-based access control\par
\b\fs28 1.3 Definitions, Acronyms, and Abbreviations\par
\b0\fs22 - BMS: Bank Management System\par
- ATM: Automated Teller Machine\par
- KYC: Know Your Customer (compliance regulations)\par
- UI: User Interface\par
- API: Application Programming Interface\par
- CRUD: Create, Read, Update, Delete (basic database operations)\par
 \b\fs28 2. Overall Description\b0\fs22\par
This section provides a high-level description of the system\rquote s components and the interaction between them.\par
\b\fs28 2.1 System Perspective\b0\fs22\par
The Bank Management System is a client-server application with the following components:\par
- Frontend: User Interface (UI) for customers, tellers, and administrators.\par
- Backend: Business logic, data processing, and database management.\par
- Database: Stores customer information, transaction details, loan records, etc.\par
\b\fs28 2.2 User Classes and Characteristics\b0\fs22\par
 Customer: A registered user who can view and manage their accounts, request loans, and make transactions.\par
Teller: A bank staff member who performs account transactions, such as deposits and withdrawals, and assists customers.\par
-Manager: A higher-level bank staff member who has access to account management, loan approvals, and reports.\par
- Administrator: A system administrator who manages user roles, maintains system settings, and monitors system health.\par
\b\fs28 2.3 Operating Environment\par
\b0\fs22 - Frontend: Web-based application or mobile application.\par
- Backend: A cloud-based or on-premises server with database management systems (e.g., MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB).\par
- Operating System: Cross-platform (Windows, macOS, Linux).\par
- Security Protocols: SSL/TLS encryption for secure communication, two-factor authentication, role-based access control.\par
\b\fs28 2.4 Design and Implementation Constrains\b0\fs22\par
- The system must support high availability and performance with minimal downtime.\par
- Data privacy and security are of utmost importance due to financial regulations (e.g., GDPR, PCI DSS).\par
- The system must be scalable to accommodate future growth in users and transactions.\par
\b\fs28 2.5 Assumptions and Dependencies\b0\fs22\par
- The system will be developed using modern web technologies such as HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and backend frameworks like Spring Boot or Django.\par
- The system will rely on third-party payment gateways for processing online transactions.\par
- The system will be integrated with external identity providers for authentication (e.g., OAuth).\par
\b\fs28 3. System Features\par
\b0\fs22 This section defines the core functionalities of the Bank Management System.\par
\b\fs28 3.1 User Authentication\par
\b0\fs22 Description: The system will provide secure authentication mechanisms for users (customers, tellers, managers, and administrators).\par
\b\fs28 Functional Requirements:\par
\b0\fs22 - Users must log in using a username and password.\par
- The system will support multi-factor authentication (MFA) for added security.\par
- Administrators can reset passwords and manage user accounts.\par
- The system will automatically log users out after a period of inactivity.\par
\b\fs28 3.2 Customer Account Management\par
\b0\fs22 Description: Customers will be able to manage their accounts, including creating, updating, and deleting accounts.\par
\b\fs28 Functional Requirements\b0\fs22 :\par
- Customers can create a new account by providing personal information, such as name, address, and identification.\par
- Customers can view and update their account details (address, phone number, etc.).\par
- Customers can request account closure (subject to approval).\par
\b\fs28 3.3 Transaction Processing\b0\fs22\par
Description: Customers can perform various types of transactions, including deposits, withdrawals, and fund transfers.\par
\b\fs28 Functional Requirements:\par
\b0\fs22 - Customers can deposit money into their accounts (via bank teller or online).\par
- Customers can withdraw money from their accounts (via ATM or bank teller).\par
- Customers can transfer funds between accounts, both within the bank and to external banks.\par
- Each transaction will be recorded with time, date, and transaction ID.\par
\b\fs28 3.4 Loan Management\par
\b0\fs22 Description: The system will allow customers to apply for and manage loans.\par
\b\fs28 Functional Requirements:\par
\b0\fs22 - Customers can apply for loans by providing necessary information (loan type, amount, repayment period).\par
- Loan applications will be reviewed and approved/rejected by bank managers.\par
- Customers can view their loan status, repayment schedule, and remaining balance.\par
- The system will calculate monthly loan repayment amounts based on interest rates and the loan amount.\par
\b\fs28 3.5 Account Statement Generation\par
\b0\fs22 Description: The system will generate account statements for customers to track their transactions.\par
\b\fs28 Functional Requirements:\par
\b0\fs22 - Customers can request monthly or annual account statements.\par
- The statements will include details of deposits, withdrawals, transfers, and balance.\par
- Statements will be available in PDF format or downloadable in CSV.\par
\b\fs28 3.6 Reporting and Analytics\b0\fs22\par
Description: Managers and administrators can generate reports for auditing and decision-making.\par
\b\fs28 Functional Requirements\b0\fs22 :\par
- The system will generate transaction reports (daily, weekly, monthly).\par
- Loan reports, including total loan amounts, repayments, and defaults.\par
- User activity and security audit logs.\par
\b\fs28 3.7 Notifications and Alerts\par
Description\b0\fs22 : The system will send notifications to users for various activities.\par
\b\fs28 Functional Requirements\b0\fs22 :\par
- Customers will receive notifications for successful transactions, loan approvals, and low balances.\par
- Alerts will be sent for security events, such as failed login attempts or account changes\par
\b\fs28 4. Non-Functional Requirements\b0\fs22\par
\b\fs28 4.1 Performance Requirement\b0\fs22\par
- The system must handle up to 10,000 concurrent users without significant performance degradation.\par
- Transaction processing should occur in under 2 seconds.\par
\b\fs28 4.2 Security Requirements\par
\b0\fs22 - Data must be encrypted both in transit and at rest.\par
- The system must comply with financial industry security standards (PCI DSS).\par
- Role-based access control (RBAC) to ensure appropriate permissions are granted based on user roles.\par
\b\fs28 4.3 Availability\b0\fs22\par
- The system must have 99.9% uptime, excluding scheduled maintenance.\par
- The system should have backup and disaster recovery processes in place.\par
\b\fs28 4.4 Usability\par
\b0\fs22  The system should have a clean, user-friendly interface with minimal learning curve.\par
- The UI should be accessible for people with disabilities (e.g., WCAG compliance).\par
\par
\par
}
 